# EUNIS
This is a R code for assigning vegetation plots to EUNIS habitat types according to the Czech Expert system
we provide a code that can be run in R. The core of the expert system are machine-readable assignment rules that decide whether a particular plot is assigned to a particular EUNIS habitat. Each assignment rule is a logical membership formula (see definition above). Each membership formula consists of several logical membership expressions (e.g. <#TC Trees GR 05>), which start and end with angle brackets ("<", ">") and are combined by formal logic. Each logical membership expression can be evaluated to "T" (TRUE) or "F" (FALSE). In consequence, their combination by logical operators "AND", "OR" and "NOT" also result in "T" or "F". Each logical expression has a left-hand and (in most cases also a) right-hand condition, called membership conditions, which can be evaluated with a result of a numeric value. The left- and right-hand membership conditions are compared using the logical operators "GR" (greater), "GE" (greater or equal) and "EQ" (equal). In the R version, these steps are carried out in reverse order, i.e. from evaluating membership conditions within membership expressions (step 4) and evaluating membership expressions within membership formulas (step 5) to evaluating membership formulas (step 6). In other words, the assignment rules are resolved from inside to outside. The R code version is particularly effective in large databases because all logical operations in steps 5 and 6 are solved vector-wise across all plots, allowing for parallel evaluation of membership expressions and formulas
